The Joe Rogan experience. Did you hear about, um,
I read an article about how somebody was like,
I know I'm supposed to have a hand here, but it feels so foreign that,
and there's been multiple recorded cases of this where they will shove their
hand in dry ice so that they can get an amputated so that afterwards they can
say, look, I'm free. I finally feel normal. It's like you just,
and they say that to them.
It feels like if I had a third hand just growing out of here,
I'd feel like that doesn't belong. Right.
There are some people where they feel like their hand doesn't belong.
And what that shows is like the variation in human psychology is so
broad. That it's scary because when you really digest that, that exists,
you also can understand how well there's monsters out there to want to massacre
people. And they dream about that. And that's, that's how they get their rocks.
Off a human, the human mind, very, so much.
There's so many different paths that thoughts can go down.
And there's so many different, weird pathologies that,
that the mind is capable of.
But the idea that you would think that you're supposed to be handicapped and
you're not handicapped. So you want to chop off a foot or something like that.
It's really, I mean, it's not common. I shouldn't say it's common, but it's,
it's, it's definitely documented.
So let me ask you, what's your take on, um,
if somebody is transgender and they want the surgery
and let's say they're either in the military or they're in prison or something
like that.
Is that something that you think should be provided for them or no?
Um, Hmm.
That's a good question. I haven't really thought about it too much.
I don't think so.
I don't think that that's an elective surgery and people would say, no,
it's not elective surgery,
but you think that other people should pay for that boy? I don't know.
I don't know what it is. I don't have it. Okay.
So if I was going to say, I know why people are transgender,
they're transgender because of body dysmorphia,
they're transgender because of gender dysmorphia. They're,
they're transgender because of this, because of that, because of abuse,
because of, you know, they're, they're, uh, easily susceptible to suggestion.
I would just be talking about in my. I don't really know.
I would imagine though,
that there is a broad spectrum of reasons why someone becomes transgender.
Some of them being that they literally have the wrong programming in their
brain. Some of them being that they, I mean,
they could have thought that they were wood elf. I mean, or they that's,
the furry is the weird. Oh, that's weird. But ferry. Two's like,
I've talked to some furries cause we were kind of.
I'm sorry. I'm thinking of other kids. That's the. Yeah.
The other kid's is nuts,
but there's also people that identify with being a six year old girl. I mean,
there's been cases where people identify as being much younger than they are and
they think they should be able to have sex with young kids. So.
I feel like so on the transgender one, I feel like for a very long time,
I don't think I it at all.
And then I think I finally got it when it was explained to
me like, okay, imagine that you, as a straight, you know,
cis-gender male, don't use that term. Whatever it is.
Give it power. Don't do it. Okay. As a child.
Let's say I walk outside and I'm forced.
Every time I go outside to wear a wig and lipstick and high heels and a dress,
and I'd be mortified because this is not who the I am and why am I wearing this?
Right. So if you think the first point you made, which is, Hey,
maybe they were just born with the wrong programming that they're born,
biologically male, but they're really feel like they're a woman or vice versa.
So if that's the case and it's basically like torture for them to not be the
other thing. Well, then I kind of understand that.
And I'm in favor of them being able to get that surgery where they lose me,
not transgender people, but where I'm I get lost in this whole conversation is,
uh, like the gender fluidity one, like I was a male.
Now I'm a woman and now I'm a man again. And then I'm a woman again.
And then I'm a man again, I'm just idiot. Yeah.
That's the thing is like a person at a certain point,
there are things that are real and there are things that are not real.
And I feel like it delegitimizes the ones that are real when you go too
goofy and too far, and you try to pretend like gender fluidity is a thing. Well,
isn't it.
And what we were talking about earlier,
when we're talking about left-wing people versus right-wing people that you in,
in the term, left-wing people,
anybody can join and you're going to get people like the green haired people
that were disrupting their hiring speech, because she was saying,
there's a difference between men and women. You're going to get those nutty.
And then you're going to get people that are just reasonable people that have
happened to be progressive. You're going to get that with gender fluidity.
You're going to get that with people that are transgender.
You're going to get that with people that are, you know,
you're just going to get a wide variety.
It's very difficult to nail things down, decide.
But for like,
for everybody who looks at that and then gets turned off to that and says,
you know what,
I'm aligned more with the right wing because of that culture stuff.
Like I get that feeling over the, the culture issues. But again,
the point that I would make to them is just,
don't forget that when I talk about politics and when I talk about where I fall
on the political spectrum, to me, I break it down toward,
on policy and where I fall on the policy issues and what we should implement in
order to fix the country. And on those issues,
like we were talking about earlier, um, pretty reliably left wing,
and the poll showed that the American people actually lean in that direction.
Right. So if you focus on those issues, the economic issues,
the substantive issues, that change people's lives, then, um, you know,
I think that one can look at the culture issues as almost like a diversion,
because it really is a gateway to other ideas that I
think are terrible.
So I think the idea of people on the left calling out that
goofiness is a good thing so that you can redirect them and be like, well,
this is what I actually stand for.
This is what people who are on the left and want to improve people's lives
really want to fight for.
Yeah. W w I was talking to Douglas Murray about this yesterday,
and there's just this thing where everyone was forced to say that Caitlyn Jenner
is beautiful. Like you couldn't just accept that she was a woman.
You were forced to say that she was beautiful and then she's a hero.
And that's where you get the gateway to the right, because people go,
if you're going to get, that's what you're going to tell me,
represents the left, then go yourself. Because you're just not being,
you're not telling the truth. You're not. So, and it's, I don't,
I hate the thing where it's like,
we have to care more about feelings than what's accurate, right?
So I don't know why there needs to be a giant wave on the
left of the take no approach to stuff.
When it comes to the transgender thing too, they're there,
you need to be open to all avenues of this
discussion. And one thing that I think we need to be open to,
we need to think very carefully about why it is that
someone needs surgery to be themselves.
Why it is that someone needs exogenous hormones, that,
that aren't native to their biology to be themselves.
Like someone who wants to take estrogen is born a male. Someone who,
if you feel that you're a woman or you feel that you're in the wrong body,
does it make sense that nature wants you to get
surgery?
Does it make sense that nature wants you to take hormones that don't exist in
your body? I mean, sh is, this is a,
this is a rational area of contention and discussion.
This is something that people should talk about. Like when you say,
if someone is forced to wear lipstick and high heels and makeup and walking down
the street, but that's not who you are. Wouldn't that frustrate you. Yes,
it would.
But it doesn't necessarily conversely work where you are walking down the
street without lipstick and high heels and makeup.
And you saying that's what I'm supposed to have. Well, no,
because that's not real.
Like lipstick is something you choose to apply high heels or something you
choose to wear. It's not, no one's forcing you to not have those things on.
So you saying that those things are what you really are. Well, no,
you're adding those things to you. What you really are is you no makeup naked,
wake up in the morning, take off your clothes. That's where the you really are.
If you say that you should have the right to wear makeup and the right to wear
lip, of course, she had the right to get your face tattooed.
Like a Maori should have the right to do whatever the you want,
but that that's who you really are. That that's somehow your true self.
There might be an underlying psychological issue there that's relevant.
And to discuss that puts you in this category of being transphobic or
insensitive or, or right wing.
I don't think that's accurate or fair because I think this is a real weird
issue. It's very weird.
And I think the only people that truly understand it are the people that are
going through it themselves, the people that actually haven't, and, you know,
we can call upon those people to explain it to us,
but you get a broad spectrum of answers from those people as well.
What if, um,
so what if it is kind of like depression in a
way? So if some,
if you give chemical assistance to somebody who's going through depression,
everybody goes right. Good.
Because you want that person to feel like they're happy and.
Homeless even think that that's good.
I think exhaust all the possibilities first,
including exercise and diet and that's sure.
But there, but there are examples of people who, um,
do have that genuine chemical imbalance.
They do, but why do they have that genuine chemical imbalance? Um,
I had Johann Hari on the podcast who I saw that I saw that. Yeah.
And he makes a lot of really good points about like,
what is it that's happening in your life? What is it your, your,
your situation with your relationship, your career, your life, your health,
all these different things need to be taken into consideration instead of just
putting some duct tape over it.
And the term of these SSRS and all these different psych medications that
they're handing out, just as easy as they're handing out Oxycontins,
they're passing these things around radically,
radically affect your consciousness.
So let's say everybody has all their ducks in a row and they're exercising.
They're eating healthy. They're doing everything by the book. And, uh,
if you look at it on paper, you're supposed to go, yes,
that person should be healthy. And what's, uh, uh, what the is her name? Oh,
Cara Santa Maria, who you've had on the podcast before.
And she talks about how listen I was depressed.
And they tried a whole bunch of different antidepressants.
They finally got me on one that worked. And then she says like, listen,
I want people to understand. You need to look at this like treatment,
look at it like, you know, Hey, I've got a disease.
And they got to give me antibiotics in order to feel better.
Did the problem with that as is real scientists and doctors would disagree with
that. And I don't know if she exhausted every other possibility. And Kara,
she worships at the throne of science and she thinks that this is the way to
handle it. And she might be right.
It also might be possible that if she had rigorous exercise on a daily basis,
cleaned up her diet and did a bunch of other things that maybe that would be
just as effective. If not more. I don't know. I don't know.
I don't know what she's done, but I think that automatically assuming that this,
this blanket statement called depression, which could be,
what does that even mean? You're not happy with your station in life.
What does that mean? You're not happy with your body. What does that mean?
I don't know what it means. I mean, will you tell me that you have it?
You know what it is when you have it,
but how do you know that what you have is the same as what that guy has or with
what she has or what other people play? We don't know,
but we do know is the human body reacts in very
different ways when it's well fed with nutrients.
And when you exercise on a daily basis,
you flood your body with a natural endorphins that come from that exercise.
When you surround yourself with a loving community,
when you engage in things that are rewarding to you,
all these things have a very positive effect on the way your mind works,
as well as the way your body feels the way your body feels has a positive result
on the way your mind works to think of either one of being independent of each
other, I think is ignorance. It's the same thing. Your body's all this.
And there's radical. Look, I'm not a depressed person,
but I feel way better after I exercise. I mean.
There's science on that, that when you exercise, when you eat, right, of course,
you're going to get it, definitely get a boost in your mood,
but it's hard to do.
And that's why people like to take a pill and that's totally true.
And they also like to justify their actions when people take a pill and that
pill is effective, and then they go, well, this is my thing.
This is what did it for me worked for me. They're like, okay,
but at what cost can you orgasm anymore? Like,
there's a lot of that happens to people that when they take those things,
it really them up. Sure.
So if you're making the point that they're overprescribed and people rely on
them too much, and it's part of the culture in a negative way.
Totally agree with you. Yes. If,
if we look at the example of say paranoid schizophrenia,
where it's somebody who literally sees, that's not there,
and it's a genuine psychological disorder where they needed very powerful drug,
like Seroquel or something like that. So in the case of transgenderism,
what if it's more analogous to a mental state that's as real as that,
where it's, you know what I mean? Like, okay.
That is a solution surgery, sexual reassignment surgery.
And how do we even know?
No, I don't know.
But then this gets back to the point you made about the personal freedom angle
of it, where they say, you know what, I'm going to do this.
And this is what I mean. I definitely.
Think they should have personal freedom to do it.
Just like they think they should have personal freedom to get their nose pierced
and do whatever you want to do, but should you have to pay for it?
Well,
that's then that gets into the broader conversation about who should pay for
medical coverage period.
But is this, is this an elective thing?
Like how about girls that identify with a girl who has big?
I identify as a girl have big and I have little.
And so you're saying the line is blurry. Well, it's certainly the same thing.
It's the same thing in terms of you don't like your physical state and you want
someone to change it. And if you say you would be happy if you had D cups,
but you have a cups and you're convinced this is the key to your happiness.
How is that any different than a person?
And you could get mad at me all you want,
but we're talking about the physical state. Sure. The physical state of someone,
like how, how can you,
how can you say that the only way to fix this?
Or how could you not offer that up as a possible avenue that these people that
can pursue it, if you,
if there's any surgery that can help you and you want other people to pay for
that surgery, I don't care.
Just because it pertains to gender doesn't mean we have to automatically ask.
I don't think that's, I don't think that's rational.
And when it comes to breasts or other, other various elective surgeries,
I strongly feel that people should pay for those themselves. Sure. I will.
Absolutely. When it comes to the example you give.
About, uh, breasts. Totally agree.
Well, why is that different than sex change? I'm not saying it is.
I'm not saying it is either.
I'm just saying, um, if that is the case where, and by the way,
I haven't read the science on this, but I'm sure there has been science on this.
And they've answered the question as to whether or not doing that surgery is
effective. Well, it's not.
Here's the problem. There's a massive, massive suicide rate. It's over 40%.
So even, even post-operation.
I was going to say,
am I wrong in my assumption that pre operation that's when more of the suicides
are versus.
Post-op, I don't it's changes. I'm pretty sure. See if let's,
let's be accurate about this, um, um, suicide rates,
pre post transgender sexual reassignment operations.
I am pretty sure that it's very similar, that it doesn't change.
And then there's also causation versus correlation, right?
Is it because they're depressed because they were in the wrong body that led
them down this road, and now here they are. And they just can't get past it.
Even after they have the surgery, they're still bummed out.
They're not accepted by society as a woman, even if they become a trans woman,
they're still not accepted by society.
And could that be changed by us being more open-minded and loving? Is.
It nature? Is it nurture? Is it the environment? Is it in the person?
But if, if it is legitimate mental health disorder, which used to be called,
it used to be called gender dysphoria.
And now if you use the term gender dysphoria, it's hate speech.
And he turns a bus talking about this might get this podcast.
Demonetized probably will. If.
It, if it is gender dysphoria,
then wouldn't it actually be a medical condition where the treatment should be
paid for.
Good question. Yeah. Is that the correct treatment for gender dysphoria?
Is that the correct treatment for someone who thinks that they should have no
hand? Should you chop that hand off? What do you think? I don't know.
Should you chop a penis off?
I don't know. That's what Caitlin Jenner did it. Yeah. Wait, did she get,
did eventually.
Okay. Well the most hilarious statement after she did that,
she said that she is no more of a woman now that she was before.
Well then, Hey, definitely keep your Dick. Yeah, that's a good point.
If you were still a woman before.
And he might say something the same now,
which is why I did this really radical thing. It's like, no. Well,
you did admit that you did that for a reason that you really wanted to do it
different. I.
Mean, I don't know,
maybe street cred led her to have the operation to just fully get, I mean,
she's fully accepted by that community and become a spokesperson by the year.
No way. It's.
Funny because she's, she's super right-wing on other issues.
Remember when she went on.
She was like, I'm a very traditional, like traditional I'm. Sure. Yeah.
So a lot of people in the trans community were like, you know what, her.
Because she was out there arguing. I forget it was gay.
Marriage was one of marriage,
but then there was another one where she was talking about economics and she
was, you know, like pull yourself up by your bootstraps.
It's like privileged prick without how much money do you have for just sitting
around all day and getting paid from the Kardashians.
Female Kardashians. The show is,
was especially always what she's on that frivolous, ridiculous show.
And she became a really bizarre side note in pop culture.
And that's what's going on. I mean, when you listen to her talk,
she's like one of the worst spokespeople ever for the trans community.
And a lot of trans people say that, and they're like,
we don't want her as cause there, you know,
if you trans people are individuals.
So you left the look at people like they're individuals. And when they,
when somebody is put out as this is a leader of this movement, then it's like.
Does that make sense? Examples. The one,
the woman who created Sirius satellite radio,
she also created a satellite navigation system. She used to be a man in fact,
very, very brilliant person.
I interviewed her for Saifai for that Joe Rogan questions, everything show,
she created model of her wife, who they actually had babies together.
And then she became a woman and they stayed together and she,
she created a robot of her, her wife,
and she's like constantly programming it and changing it and adding, you know,
new language and new vocabulary to it.
And she thinks eventually as technology improves,
she's going to be able to recreate her wife in a robot, right.
By the way, another great example, Brianna Westbrook is.
The uncomfortable truth that many surveys,
including the 2011 Swedish study indicate that suicide rates remain high after
sex reassignment surgery.
The Swedish study reports that people have had sex reassignment surgery are 19
times more likely to die by suicide than is the general population.
To be fair, to be fair. I see the sources life site news, which is a very, very.
Right. That's true.
But the national center for transgender equality reported in 2014,
that 40% of the people identify as transgender have attempted suicide.
Very well may be true.
I'm just saying that's the national center for transgender equality.
They were just breaking.
Up this article here, which is the study.
PLO one is legit. That's true.
That's legit. So, um, but they're, they're reporting facts from studies. And,
uh, I mean, this is,
this is pretty well established that there's a high suicide rate amongst
transgender people pre and post reassignment surgery.
And then we go back to the same thing.
It doesn't necessarily mean that they couldn't be happy if they weren't just
fully accepted by society. I mean, I don't know if it's,
I think Caitlyn Jenner is probably happier cause she gets a load of attention
now. And she was in the shadow Bahara well, I'm over here.
I'm over here by the way. Now she's, you know, front and center Vogue magazine.
Yeah.
A lot of attention. Speaking of, uh, people who would be a better example and,
and a better, you know, face of the transgender movement, uh,
Brianna Westbrook is a candidate who's running for office and there's actually a
special election today and she's running for Congress and she's really
inspirational. Uh, I, I, uh know about her because I found a justice Democrats,
which was a group that it was going to primary corporate Democrats and run
candidates who take no corporate PAC money. And, uh,
she's one of the candidates. And what you find is it,
the people who are really respectful are the people who they like,
she happens to be transgender, but she's not putting that front and center.
Right. You know what I'm saying? Like, she's a person, she's a person. Exactly.
And she's going here are the things I believe in.
And I think this will improve everybody's lives and I'm gonna run on these
issues and it's not like, Hey, I'm transgender. If you don't vote for me,
then you're a bigot.
Right, right, right. That's a very good point. And I think open-mindedness is,
is incredibly critical in our wide diverse society.
And when people, when people push back against that,
it creates all sorts of giant problems. And I just think it doesn't matter,
you should be able to do whatever you want to do. And if it doesn't affect you,
why do you care? I think we should re be really, really, really careful,
but what we do to children now. Yeah.
I saw,
I saw your conversation on that recently and I think you made a bunch of good
points. Like when is it okay to, to say, you know what, okay,
if you want to do the surgery, you can do the surgery.
Well, there's a, there's a guilt going back to Heather highing and, um, uh,
Eric Weinstein, there was a, um, an article that I believe Eric,
not Eric, I'm sorry, Brett, Brett Weinstein put up on his Twitter yesterday,
or maybe it was Heather, what they were discussing. Um,
this,
this real problem with kids who are really young,
where it becomes a trendy thing to, to think that they're in the wrong gender.
And then they get reinforcement from their very progressive friends who also get
excited about this idea and then to intervene surgically
or chemically when your body's still in development,
you're 13 or whatever the you are. You don't know what you are yet.
And you should be able to give yourself a chance to grow and develop.
But there's a lot of people that disagree,
including people that are already transgender that in my mind,
they're probably more supportive of it because they want more people to do it.
Like Steven Crowder had this weird thing where he and Jared,
that guy that he does his show with,
went to this meeting and they were talking about [inaudible] undercover film
thing where they're talking about their six-year-old like,
is that too young to transition them? And they're like, no,
a matter of fact studies show that it that's the good time.
It's a good time to do it.
And that you could transition back if he changes his mind. And he was like,
what the are you talking about? No, you can't,
you're using hormone blockers in a kid.
You're going to radically affect the way that kid develops as a grown adult.
Yeah.
I don't know what line is the proper line?
Adulthood adult. Is it 16? No, it's 18. Is it 21?
I think it's probably 25. I think it was five fully developed frontal cortex.
Nope.